% Compiler Construction 2016, Series 2
% Christoph Rackwitz (282245), Wanja Hentze (335148),
% Maximilian Schander (331410), Jonathan Neuschäfer (334424)


## Exercise 1

### (a)
Example regexes:
$(a|b)^*a(a|b)(a|b)(a|b)...(a|b)$ With $(a|b)$ n times.

Or in short with a specified n
$(a|b)^*a(a|b)^n$
This means that the character n positions before the end is definetly an n. By this means a recognizing DFA needs $2^n$ states to detect all potential postfixes following the ($|w|-n$)th position, as this is the only way of a construting a counting DFA.

### (b)

Eample regex:
$(a|a|a|a.....|a|a|a)$
For matching this regex, |w| transitions need to be considered and for each transition $O(a^2)$ transitions need to be constructed and recognized at the same time.
Imagine the resulting matching NFA with a start state $(q_0)$ which transitions to $(q_1) to (q_n+1)$ with "a" while $(q_1) to (q_n+1)$ transition back to $q_0$ with $\epsilon$. 

 
## Exercise 2

### Proposition 1

Claim: If $[[a_p]] = \emptyset$ for some $p \in \{ 1, ..., n\}$ there exists no flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$ that is not a flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_{p-1},\alpha_{p+1},...,\alpha_n$ as well.

Proof: Let $[[a_p]] = \emptyset$ for some $p \in \{ 1, ..., n\}$ and $(T_{i_1},...,T_{i_k})$ be an flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$.

Now, for every $j \in [k]$, we have $i_j = min\{I\in [n] ~|~ w_j \in [[a_I]]\}$.

However, since $[[a_p]] = \emptyset$, we know $w_j \notin [[a_p]]$ for all $w_j$ and therefore

$min\{I\in [n] |~ w_j \in [[a_I]]\} = min\{I\in [n] \backslash \{p\} |~ w_j \in [[a_I]]\}$.

Hence, $(T_{i_1},...,T_{i_k})$ is also an flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n \backslash \{\alpha_p\} = \alpha_1,...,\alpha_{i-1},\alpha_{i+1},...,\alpha_n$ (see 3.7).

### Proposition 2

Claim: If $\epsilon \in [[\alpha_p]]$ for some $p \in \{1,...,n\}$ then the flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1, . . . , \alpha_n$ is not unique (if it
exists).

Proof: Let $\epsilon \in [[\alpha_p]]$ for some $p \in \{1,...,n\}$ and $(w_1,...,w_k)$ be an LM-decomposition of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$. 

Then, $(T_{i_1},...,T_{i_k})$ with $i_j := min\{I\in [n] ~|~ w_j \in [[a_I]]\}$

is an flm-analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$ (Definition 3.7).

However, $(w_1,...,w_k, \epsilon)$ is also an LM-decomposition of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$, because $\epsilon \in [[\alpha_p]]$ and there is no way to match anything longer than $\epsilon$ to $\alpha_p$ at the end of $w$.

Now, $(T_{i_1},...,T_{i_k}, T_p)$ is also an flm analysis of $w$ w.r.t. $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_n$.

Therefore, the flm-analysis is no longer unique when $\epsilon \in [[\alpha_p]]$ is allowed.

## Exercise 3

### (a)

### (b)

### (c)

### (d)

### (e)
